Add simple combo docs (#3017)
IgniteUI/igniteui-docfx: en/components/simple-combo.md

---
title: Single Select ComboBox Component
_description: The Ignite UI for Angular ComboBox provides a powerful input, combining features of the basic HTML input, select, filtering and custom drop-down lists. Try it for FREE
_keywords: angular combobox, ignite ui for angular, infragistics
---

# Single Select ComboBox

The Angular Simple ComboBox component is a modification of [ComboBox component](combo.md) that allows single selection. Simple combobox is an editable input that allows users to choose an option from a predefined list of items. The Ignite UI for Angular Simple ComboBox Component provides also filtering capabilities, selections of items, grouping and adding custom values to a dropdown list. It can be used as an alternative to the HTML select tag and has several out-of-the-box features such as data binding (local and remote), filtering, grouping, custom templates, custom values, and more.

## Angular Simple ComboBox Example

> In this Angular Simple ComboBox example, you can see how users can select the chart's trend line type. In addition, the Simple ComboBox expose keyboard navigation and custom styling capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this Angular Simple ComboBox example, you can see how users can select the chart's trend line type. In addition, the Simple ComboBox exposes keyboard navigation and custom styling capabilities.
```

<div class="divider--half"></div>

<code-view style="height: 400px;"
           data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}"
           iframe-src="{environment:demosBaseUrl}/lists/simple-combo-main" alt="Angular Simple ComboBox Example">
</code-view>

## Angular Simple ComboBox Features

The simple combobox control exposes the following features:
    - Data Binding - local data and remote data
    - Value Binding
    - Filtering
    - Grouping
    - Custom Values
    - Templates
    - Integration with Template Driven Forms and Reactive Forms

## Usage

To get started with the Simple ComboBox component, first you need to import the `IgxSimpleComboModule` in your **app.module.ts** file:

```typescript
import { IgxSimpleComboModule } from 'igniteui-angular';

@NgModule({
    imports: [
        ...
        IgxSimpleComboModule,
        ...
    ]
})
export class AppModule {}
```

> Then, in the template, you should bind the [igx-simple-combo]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxsimplecombocomponent.html) with some data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, in the template, you should bind the [igx-simple-combo]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxsimplecombocomponent.html) to some data.
```

    }
}
```

```html
<igx-simple-combo [data]="cities"></igx-simple-combo>
```

Our simple combobox is now bound to the array of cities.

### Data value and display properties

Since the simple combobox is bound to an array of complex data (i.e. objects), we need to specify a property that the control will use to handle the selected items. The control exposes two `@Input` properties - [valueKey]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxsimplecombocomponent.html#valuekey) and [displayKey]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxsimplecombocomponent.html#displaykey):

 - `valueKey` - *Optional, recommended for object arrays* - Specifies which property of the data entries will be stored for the simple combobox's selection. If `valueKey` is omitted, the simple combobox value will use references to the data entries (i.e. the selection will be an array of entries from `igxSimpleCombo.data`).
 - `displayKey` - *Required for object arrays* - Specifies which property will be used for the items' text. If no value is specified for `displayKey`, the simple combobox will use the specified `valueKey` (if any).

> In our case, we want the simple combobox to display the `name` of each city and the simple combobox value to store the `id` of each city. Therefore, we are providing these properties to the simple combobox's `displayKey` and `valueKey`, respectively:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our case, we want the simple combobox to display the `name` of each city and its value to store the `id` of each city. Therefore, we are binding these properties as values to the simple combobox's `displayKey` and `valueKey`, respectively:
```

```html
<igx-simple-combo [data]="cities" [displayKey]="'name'" [valueKey]="'id'"></igx-simple-combo>
```

> [!Note]
> When the data source is comprised of a simple type (e.g. `string[]`, `number[]`), **do not** specify a `valueKey` and `displayKey`.

### Two-Way Binding

> The simple combobox component fully supports two-way data-binding with `[(ngModel)]` as well as usage in [template driven](https://angular.io/guide/forms) and [reactive](https://angular.io/guide/reactive-forms) forms. The simple combobox selection can be accessed either through two-way binding or through the [selection API](#selection-api). We can pass an item of the same type as the ones in the simple combobox's selection (based on `valueKey`) and any time one changes, the other is updated accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simple combobox component fully supports two-way data-binding with `[(ngModel)]` as well as usage in [template driven](https://angular.io/guide/forms) and [reactive](https://angular.io/guide/reactive-forms) forms. The simple combobox selection can be accessed either through two-way binding or through the [selection API](#selection-api). We can pass in an item of the same type as the ones in the simple combobox's selection (based on `valueKey`) and any time one changes, the other is updated accordingly.
```

Reviewer: Also, the last sentence is kind of difficult to read, can we rephrase it?

```html
<igx-simple-combo [data]="cities" [(ngModel)]="selectedCity" [displayKey]="'name'" [valueKey]="'id'"></igx-simple-combo>
```

```typescript
export class MySimpleComboComponent {
    public cities: { name: string, id: string }[] = [
                   { name: 'Sofia', id: 'BG01' }, { name: 'London', id: 'UK01' }, ...];
    public selectedCity: string = 'BG01';
}
```

<code-view style="height: 550px;"
           data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}"
           iframe-src="{environment:demosBaseUrl}/lists/simple-combo-usage" >
</code-view>

Two-way binding can also be achieved without a specified `valueKey`. For example, if `valueKey` is omitted, the bound model will look like this:

```typescript
export class MySimpleComboComponent {
    public cities: { name: string, id: string }[] = [
                   { name: 'Sofia', id: 'BG01' }, { name: 'London', id: 'UK01' }, ...];
    public selectedCity: { name: string, id: string } = this.cities[0];
}
```

### Selection API

The simple combobox component exposes API that allows getting and manipulating the current selection state of the control.

> One way to get the simple combobox's selection is via the [selection]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxsimplecombocomponent.html#selection) property. It returns a value which correspond to the selected item, depending on the specified [valueKey](#data-value-and-display-properties) (if any).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way to get its selection is via the [selection]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxsimplecombocomponent.html#selection) property. It returns a value which corresponds to the selected item, depending on the specified [valueKey](#data-value-and-display-properties) (if any).
```

In our example, `selection` will return the selected city's `id`:

```typescript
export class MySimpleComboComponent {
    ...
    public selection: string = this.simpleCombo.selection;
}
```

> Using the selection API, you can also change the simple combobox's selected item without user interaction with the control - via a button click, as a response to an Observable changing, etc. For example, we can implement a button that selects a city, using the [select()]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxsimplecombocomponent.html#select) method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the selection API, you can also change the simple combobox's selected item without user interaction with the control - via a button click, as a response to an Observable changing, etc. For example, we can implement a button that selects a city, using the [select]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxsimplecombocomponent.html#select) method:
```

```html
<igx-simple-combo [data]="cities" [displayKey]="'name'" [valueKey]="'id'"></igx-simple-combo>
<button igxButton (click)="selectFavorite()">Select Favorite</button>
```

> When clicking the button, the London city will be added to the simple combobox's selection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the button is clicked, `London` will be added to the simple combobox's selection:
```

```typescript
export class MySimpleComboComponent {
    @ViewChild(IgxSimpleComboComponent, { read: IgxSimpleComboComponent, static: true })
    public simpleCombo: IgxSimpleComboComponent;
    ...
    selectFavorites(): void {
        this.simpleCombo.select('UK01');
    }
}
```

> The simple combobox also fires an event every time its selection changes - [selectionChanging()]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxsimplecombocomponent.html#selectionchanging). The emitted event arguments, [ISimpleComboSelectionChangingEventArgs]({environment:angularApiUrl}/interfaces/isimplecomboselectionchangingeventargs.html), contain information about the selection prior to the change, the current selection and the displayed item. The event can also be cancelled, preventing the selection update with the new  item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simple combobox also fires an event every time its selection changes - [selectionChanging]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxsimplecombocomponent.html#selectionchanging). The emitted event arguments, [ISimpleComboSelectionChangingEventArgs]({environment:angularApiUrl}/interfaces/isimplecomboselectionchangingeventargs.html), contain information about the selection prior to the change, the current selection and the displayed item. The event can also be cancelled, preventing the selection from taking place.
```

Binding to the event can be done through the proper `@Output` property on the `igx-simple-combo` tag:

```html
<igx-simple-combo [data]="cities" [displayKey]="'name'" [valueKey]="'id'"
           (selectionChanging)="handleCityChange($event)">
</igx-simple-combo>
```

<div class="divider--half"></div>

## Keyboard Navigation

> When simple combobox is closed and focused:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the simple combobox is closed and focused:
```

> - `ArrowDown` or `Alt` + `ArrowDown` will open the simple combobox's drop down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ArrowDown` or `Alt` + `ArrowDown` will open the simple combobox's dropdown.
```

> [!NOTE]
> Any other key stroke will be handled by the input.

> When simple combobox is opened and list item is focused:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the simple combobox is opened and an item in the list is focused:
```

- `ArrowDown` will move to the next list item. If the active item is the last one in the list and custom values are enabled, the focus will be moved to the Add item button.

> - `ArrowUp` will move to the previous list item. If the active item is the first one in the list will close the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ArrowUp` will move to the previous list item. If the active item is the first one in the list, the list will close.
```

- `End` will move to the last list item.

- `Home` will move to the first list item.

- `Space` will select/deselect the active list item.

- `Enter` will select/deselect the active list item and will close the list.

- `Esc` will close the list.

> When combobox is opened, allow custom values are enabled and add item button is focused:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the simple combobox is opened and allow custom values are enabled, and add item button is focused:
```

- `Enter` will add a new item with `valueKey` and `displayKey` equal to the text in the search input and will select the new item.

- `ArrowUp` focus will be moved back to the last list item or if the list is empty, will close the list.

## Cascading Scenario

The following sample demonstrates a scenario where the [igx-simple-combo]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxsimplecombocomponent.html) is used:

<code-view style="height: 540px;"
           data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}"
           iframe-src="{environment:demosBaseUrl}/lists/simple-combo-cascading" alt="Angular Cascading Scenario Example">
</code-view>

<div class="divider--half"></div>

### Template Configuration

> The API of simle combobox is used to get the selected item from one component and load data source for the next one, as well clear the selection and data source when needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API of simple combobox is used to get the selected item from one component and load data source for the next one, as well clear the selection and data source when needed.
```

```html
<igx-simple-combo #country
    (selectionChanging)="countryChanging($event)"
    [(ngModel)]="selectedCountry"
    [data]="countriesData"
    [displayKey]="'name'"></igx-simple-combo>
<igx-simple-combo #province
    (selectionChanging)="provinceChanging($event)"
    [disabled]="regionData.length === 0"
    [(ngModel)]="selectedRegion"
    [data]="regionData"
    [displayKey]="'name'">
</igx-simple-combo>
<igx-simple-combo #city
    placeholder="Choose City..."
    [disabled]="citiesData.length === 0"
    [(ngModel)]="selectedCity"
    [data]="citiesData"
    [displayKey]="'name'">
</igx-simple-combo>
```

### Component Definition
```typescript
export class SimpleComboCascadingComponent implements core.OnInit {
    public selectedCountry: Country;
    public selectedRegion: Region;
    public selectedCity: City;
    public countriesData: Country[];
    public regionData: Region[] = [];
    public citiesData: City[] = [];

>     ngOnInit(): void {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    public ngOnInit(): void {
```
